stunnel         Universal SSL tunnel

Q: Is there a mailing list for stunnel?
A: Sure.  You can subscribe the list in two simple steps:
   1. Send an empty e-mail to stunnel-users-subscribe@mike.daewoo.com.pl
   2. Follow the instructions you'll receive.  8-)

Q: What do I need to build stunnel on a UNIX machine?
A: You need:
    - ANSI C compiler;
    - Openssl or SSLeay library.
   You shoud have (not nessesery):
    - POSIX threads (make sure your SSL library is built with -DTHREADS);
    - libwrap if you want to have tcp wrappers functionality.

Q: Should I use daemon mode or inetd mode?
A: Use daemon mode, if not sure.  It's better in most cases.

Q: I'd like to use ssl in my IMAP client.  Could you give me an example?
A: Use: "stunnel -d 993 -r imap"
   Or:  "stunnel -d 993 -l /usr/sbin/imapd"

Q: "stunnel -d 465 -l /usr/lib/sendmail" doesn't work...
A: Sure it doesn't.  Sendmail is not a service to be started with imapd.
   Use: "stunnel -d 465 -r smtp" instead.

Q: I'd like to start stunnel from inetd.  Could you give me an example?
A: If possible avoid starting stunnel from inetd.  It's slow (SSL needs
   to be initialized every connection), does not support session cache
   and will use more memory on heavy load.
   The example /etc/inetd.conf line for imapd:
   "simap stream tcp nowait root /usr/sbin/stunnel stunnel /usr/sbin/imapd".
   Notice, that for better compatibility above syntax is different
   than the old one (2.x).
   Don't forget to add "simap 993/tcp" to /etc/services and restart inetd.

Q: How to correctly use tcpd (tcp wrappers) with stunnel?
A: You don't need to use tcpd with stunnel.  Stunnel can do it by itself.
   Just make sure you have libwrap library when building stunnel.

Q: Will stunnel work with [...] protocol?
A: There are some simple rules to check this:
   1. The protocol needs to be based on TCP (not UDP).
   2. The protocol can't use multiple connections (like ftp).
   3. The protocol can't depend on OOB data (like telnet).
   4. Remote site can't use an application-specific protocol (like SMTP
      from Netscape 4.5 or ssltelnet, where SSL is a negotiated option).

Q: SMTP with SSL doesn't work with Netscape 4.5.  What should I do?
A: Netscape uses specific protocol for SMTP - it's not just tunneling.
   There's no way to use a general-purpose wrapper for this protocol.
   IMAP works fine, anyway.
   Workaround: Install stunnel in client mode on your Windows, instead
               of enabling SSL via SMTP in Netscape client.

Q: I have strange timeouts with my Outlook Express 4.  What to do?
A: Do *NOT* use SSL of Outlook Express 4.
   Upgrade, if you have to use Microsoft products.
   Workaround: Install stunnel in client mode on your Windows, instead
               of enabling SSL in Outlook.

Q: None of the above helped me...
A: Look into your syslog or use "-f" option.

Q: I don't understand the error.  Please help!
A: Prepare following data:
   1. Description of your problem.
   2. Output of "stunnel -f -d 7 <your-parameters>".
   3. Output of "uname -a".
   4. Output of "gcc -v".
   5. Output of "openssl version" or "ssleay version" depending of you library.
   Subscribe stunnel-users.
   Send e-mail with the above informations to the list.

* THE END *
